#Research Questions:

# RQ1: Can social media data reflect mood alternations that contribute to mental health vulnerability? 

# RQ2: What type of cognitive distortions can be inferred from social media data?

#Plans and Discussion:
The preformance of the machine learning model varies at the moment, we can't use it in actual prediction. What I would suggest is to use tools such as http://nlpprogress.com/english/sentiment_analysis.html?fbclid=IwAR0yb7aDpdy6aCNYGq2JGDMW4NxNAt1p8UdY_5c6NfK5XrOFiIDl_Rn3QM8  https://nlp.stanford.edu/sentiment/?fbclid=IwAR0spz9ev4Wgd89SyOaPFBHlDSUkDxzAcNEob52_c__qHkDcblUDfOh3U7s
to get the 3 year prediction once the annotation is out.  

As for the 3 months annotation, we can still use it to build a classifier (and we should). I have been to a talk two weeks ago about Lifelong learning. https://arxiv.org/pdf/1801.02808.pdf I want to incorporate this approach in predicting psychological perspective of valence using knowledge learned in other sentiment tasks. This is a new approach that worth to try in a slightly different domain and if in the future we need to predict sadness or other type of emotions, knowledge base learning will be very useful. I would also like to work with an NLP colleague to work with this model. I can implement the method but I need an NLP colleague to check my code.

This project contains 4 folders:

1. scripts 
2. important data
3. paper
4. prediction model

MARIA: It also contains a data folder. What is in the data folder, where does it come from 
the data file contains LIWC data, processed or preprocessed data, self-labeled data, data that need to be used on the paper is in the important data


1. scripts
data selection process: 

1) cleaned_data.rmd : this script matched users who finished CESD, Big5, SWL and Schwartz value scale. It generates user_scale_post_time2.csv (333 users, remove users who didn’t complete all the items in CESD, we have 301 users )

2) sampling_strategy.rmd: sampling strategy that identify 90 users, generates users_to_be_analysed.csv

3) 60d_beforeCESD.R: select posts that are posted 60 days before they (90 users) completed CESD (4362 posts), generates two_months.csv

basic_stats.rmd: analyse correlation between the negative disortion / negative emotion score and SWL, CESD, BIG5  (this is the script that generate the results we reported on the paper)

mergelabeleddata.R: a template to merge labeled data with scales

self-disclosure:machine label of self-disclosure level

text_label.py: count word frequency and bigram 

2. important data

resample_5000.csv: file with labels

user_scale_post_time2.csv: scale values, posts, demographic information of 301 users.

two_months.csv: file generated by 60d_beforeCESD.R, user posts (60 days before users fill out CESD)

users_to_be_analysed.csv: regular posters who have at least one post after they fill out CESD

3. paper
haven't uploaded it yet

4. prediction model
prediction models on negative emotion and cognitive distortion


-----------
information for sampling:

Regular users (122): post more than 0.3 post everyday.  30 day: 2331, 60 day: 4696, all posts: 48997, select post count > 20, 60 day (4362)
All users (301):30 day: 3007 , 60day: 6071, all posts: 64164
Regular users whose last post is less than a week before their CES-D posts (90):
30day : 2280,  60days: 4502,  select post count > 20, 60 day (4265)


The sample we used for labelling contains 4154 users, duplicated or empty posts were removed
MARIA: Is that posts or users? 

That is the posts from 77 users
After removing reposts and quotes, there are 3821 posts left for annotation (refer to /database/database_cleaned.csv)

-------

Annotation guideline:

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wxRl3oxA1lckaboBIf2SUt7Zej4hL-SEdjwmqRvB3RQ/edit?usp=sharing

MARIA: The annotation guideline should be moved to GitHub


Labels

https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1HfO-50VezOqM6Mjt9v_aHfE2wy-B9jkzi13blHJelQU/edit?usp=sharing
